# Wallpaper Features

## Fading
Most of the time that you spend using your device is probably not spent looking at your wallpaper.
Thus, it is important that a wallpaper is not a distraction when you're trying to be productive, especially 
if your wallpaper has audio.

When a wallpaper becomes focused/unfocused, by default, Hypatia starts to fade in/out any audio that the wallpaper 
plays and reports the fade progress to the pipeline for the sake of fade effects.
You can set the time it takes to fade with the `--fade` option. 

When this book refers to "fading" a wallpaper, or a "fade value," it will refer to this this and *not* a transition 
as one may expect.  

When a fade out completes, by default, all videos from the wallpaper become paused and Hypatia stops rerendering the wallpaper 
so that it does not unnecessarily utilize the GPU in the background.
This allows Hypatia to be lightweight while inactive while also having the capability of supporting graphically-intense wallpapers.

If you want to bypass this automatic pausing, you can pass the `--no-pause` flag. Wallpapers will still 
be able to fade, but no videos will pause. 

If you want to lower the volume or disable audio for a wallpaper, you can use the `--volume` option that 
acts as a *percentage* of the default volume.

## What Causes Fade?
At this point, you might be wondering what causes the wallpaper to start/stop fading.
By default, Hypatia uses the **cursor** entering / leaving the wallpaper as an indicator to
fade in/out the wallpaper. 

This behavior may be different from what you expect if you are
used to Wallpaper Engine or its various clones. On Wallpaper Engine, the wallpaper 
only becomes paused when a window is maximized or fullscreen. Currently, Hypatia does not
have a way to emulate this behavior, but support might be added in the future. 

The current behavior is much more desirable on tiling compositors since it is much more common to not have any maximized windows. Or 
even more annoying, having a maximized window on *any* workspace could prevent the wallpaper from playing when you want it to!

### How Can I Stop It?
If you want to disable fading entirely, you can set a 
fixed focus value with the `--fixed-focus` option. This option ranges from zero to one and makes it so the wallpaper does not receive any other fade
values other than the one specified. 

If the specified value is zero, then the wallpaper will be permanently paused
unless `--no-pause` is passed, as a fade value of zero means the wallpaper should be unfocused. Any other value sets the fade progress accordingly 
and makes the wallpaper permanently play. This also has a side effect of fixing the audio level as well.

Basically you can think of this option as having the wallpaper always being "stuck" in the middle of fading. `--fixed-focus=0.0` is especially 
useful if you want to use the first frame of a wallpaper as a static backdrop for something like Niri's overview.
